---
title: "IP-Bench: Benchmark for Image Protection Methods in Image-to-Video Generation Scenarios"
authors: Xiaofeng Li, **Leyi Sheng**, Zhen Sun, Zongmin Zhang, Jiaheng Wei, Xinlei He
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/2026-04-03-IPBench
excerpt: 'IP-Bench is a systematic benchmark for evaluating image protection methods in image-to-video generation scenarios.'
date: 2026-04-03
venue: 'arXiv preprint'
paperurl: 'https://arxiv.org/abs/2603.26154'
citation: 'Li, X., Sheng, L., Sun, Z., Zhang, Z., Wei, J., & He, X. (2026). &quot;IP-Bench: Benchmark for Image Protection Methods in Image-to-Video Generation Scenarios.&quot; <i>arXiv preprint arXiv:2603.26154</i>.'
---
With the rapid advancement of image-to-video (I2V) generation models, their potential for misuse in creating malicious content has become a significant concern. For instance, a single image can be exploited to generate a fake video, which can be used to attract attention and gain benefits. This phenomenon is referred to as I2V generation misuse. Existing image protection methods suffer from the absence of a unified benchmark, leading to an incomplete evaluation framework. Furthermore, these methods have not been systematically assessed in I2V generation scenarios or against preprocessing attacks, which complicates the evaluation of their effectiveness in real-world deployment. To address this challenge, we propose IP-Bench (Image Protection Bench), the first systematic benchmark designed to evaluate protection methods in I2V generation scenarios. This benchmark examines 6 representative protection methods and 5 state-of-the-art I2V models. Furthermore, our work systematically evaluates protection methods' robustness with two robustness attack strategies under practical scenarios and analyzes their cross-model and cross-modality transferability. Overall, IP-Bench establishes a systematic, reproducible, and extensible evaluation framework for image protection methods in I2V generation scenarios.
